# the acceptance

Welcome to “/special”. This is the fourth write-up of this series. It is about accepting the breakup.

Since the breakup, I have been in denial. I have denied the mere existence of this breakup and have been fighting it. I have turned a blind eye to my own mistakes. Let’s start with my mistakes.

I have always been the kind of person who likes being isolated. This, while being a very productive thing, has an opportunity cost. The fundamentals of life lie in what you create and leave behind *and how you make people feel*. I have been reasonably bullish over the idea of creating and leaving an excellent monetary impact behind but I have paid little attention to how I make people feel. Why did I not do this? I was ignorant, imbecile, and busy. But why does it matter how you make people feel? *Because that is what they actually remember for life*. I hurt Varda by not being emotionally available for her. I hurt Varda by being numb to my own emotions immediately after the first breakup. I hurt Varda by being inconsiderate of my words when I wanted her back after the first breakup. This does not go just one way. The reverse is also true. Even *I remember how people make me feel*. The reason Varda and I got close in the first place is because *she made me feel okay* about shit not working out with Shraddha. Now, in order to take care of how I make people feel, I should be investing in nurturing a relationship with them. What would nurture mean to me? Make the person feel good. Be honest with the person. Share a laugh with that person. And do this fairly frequently. Because people forget. *Relationships need reassurance in multiple forms frequently*. When life is hard on you, these relationships will come and save you. When life is easy on you, these relationships will celebrate your happiness with you. This nurturing is what I did not do during my first time with Varda and it drove her away. This lack of nurturing in general has prevented me from forming deep and fairly evergreen relationships with other people as well.

Another mistake I made was being too invested too early. Yes, the idea of getting married is dreamy. But it is detrimental to my own mental health to start thinking about it very early on in the relationship. If a relationship has to transform itself into a marriage, both partners should be in the same headspace first. Only then would the dreams and the hopes make any sense. It sucks that I needed a whole breakup to realize this. The concept sounds logical yet my ambitions of getting married to the first girl I am with led me to stupidity. Because *there is a very thin line between ambition and delusion*. In business and tech, being ambitious still pays off. But, *in relationships, take things slow and have minimal expectations*. (side note: the idea of getting married to the first girl you are with could still work. It is possible to find somebody you love, somebody who loves you, and with whom you don’t do any stupid things to jeopardize the relationship. But you shouldn’t be hoping for this.)

This relationship was beautiful while it lasted. We were worth it while we were invested. There is nothing but an abyss here and there is nobody around me. I shouldn’t be here either.

With my mistakes laid out here, and with my anger and pain expressed previously, I think it is time to realize that this relationship is over and that the breakup is the final state. There is a friendship to look forward to but I shouldn’t be hoping for her to come back. I shouldn’t be trying to convince her of anything. I should let her go.