# the pain

Welcome back to “/special”. You’re reading the second write-up of this series. This is about the pain I experienced (and still do) after the breakup.

This breakup is the death of hope. I had hoped that we would be something. I was deeply in love. And I wanted to do it all correctly. I wanted us to work on our issues. I wanted to keep telling her in a billion different ways how much I loved her. I knew we were talking about the possibility of a breakup but I did not want it to happen. She meant the whole world to me. She had become my reason to be a more capable man. She and I were different in many aspects but I totally loved how we would work on accommodating each other. I loved dancing with her to slow music. I felt calm while walking with her. She could read me in a way that I felt naked. She was all I needed to get through life. She made me whole.

Since the day we started discussing the possibility of a breakup, I was under extreme stress. A bullet had been shot through my heart. And this bleeding heart kept beating fast. I was (and am still) experiencing palpitations during the night, sometimes during the day as well. My appetite has decreased. I do not sleep well. Getting up from bed is hard as well. I am a lump who doesn’t write much code these days. My ears want to hear her say, “bubuuu” with the love she had given me. When I see her at college, I just want to hug her tightly and kiss her forehead. I keep telling myself that it could get better but I also know that nothing would be the same without her. This is somebody I wanted to spend the rest of my life with. I might make the money I want. I might create an impact in this country. But, she won’t be there by my side. And without her, it would be extremely hard to be happy again, in the way, I used to be.

I wish she hadn’t left. I wish she did not have to make a choice between us and herself. I wish I had been a better boyfriend from the start. The breakup happened in about 2 days but I lost her over the years. It breaks my heart to be unwanted by her. It breaks my heart to know that she gave up. No reason could make her stay. It is unfair in life that a relationship requires the consent of two people but a breakup requires just one person to give up. I wish she saw what we could have become. I wish the future did not scare her. In the face of getting better, I wish she hadn't quit.

Now, we are a dream. An unrealized dream. I am still deeply in love with her but I have to let her go. This is the hardest thing I have had to experience in my life so far.

The mutually exclusive behaviour did not have to exist but it did:

I wanted her. She wanted herself.