# the story

Welcome to “/special”. This is a new section on my site that is *deeply personal,* yet fundamentally out there, out of my chest, in order to deal with my breakup. It might cover more important events of my life too later, but this is the start. The first write-up is the story. It is the story of Varda and me.

I was in the initial days of my college. Life had just started. I made a new friend, Riya. All newly admitted students were supposed to undergo a lengthy process of filling out some stupid eligibility forms. We were standing outside a class and a random girl, in her light purple t-shirt and black pants, sitting with her legs folded on a bench waived her hands at Riya and came towards us. For such a boring day and a boring task, she was high on energy. I thought to myself, “kya jhalli hai”. We introduced ourselves to each other. She told me her name. Varda. Later, I met Keny through the two girls. Parallelly, I had made a friend in my hostel, Ronak. Eventually, we all started hanging out together.

As time went by, I met another girl in my class, Shraddha. She seemed smart and quiet. She was interesting to talk to. We used to hang out in college together. She was nice. I started liking her. Varda, Keny, and Riya eventually got to know about me liking her as well. Just around the time I was about to ask Shraddha out, *something happened*. And we stopped talking. Things went sideways. And my plans to ask her out became, nothing. On the day that this happened, I was sad. It was a tough day. The three girls were with me, helping me deal with the sadness. Later, two of them went for some work but one person stayed. Varda stayed. She was feeling sad for me, with me. She even cried about it. Since that day, she and I started hanging out together. She and I became good friends. But something was happening. She and I started flirting with each other. The initial moves were soft and innocent, but over time, they were more pronounced in effect. We got close. When the group used to go out for walks, we started escaping from the usual paths. We liked spending time together. We started holding each other’s hands. It felt pure. We did not know what this was but it felt nice. This went on for some weeks.

And one fine day, I asked her. “Do you think we should be defining what we have?”

She smiled a little. “I think so.”

With all the courage I had within me, I said, “I like you.”

She blushed and replied, “I like you too.”

That was a beautiful day!

Now that things were more pronounced, the reasons to text, the reasons to ask her to meet in the mess every morning, and the reasons to walk to college together, were more well-defined. We started talking about our past. I told her about this girl from my high school whom I had unsaid feelings for and how it made me sad that it never happened. She told me about her relationship, the ending of which, left her in a depressed state. She cried while describing this. I consoled her. We were alone on top of our canteen. It was a regular and quiet afternoon. I was holding her hands. All I wanted to do, after listening to her, was to make her happy. After the consoling, we were in a relaxed state. She kissed me on my right cheek. It felt special. It felt great. I kissed her back on her right cheek. This moment was beautiful. We were happy.

By now, it was obvious to the group that we were *something*. The more time I spent with her, the more amazing I felt. I could sit with her and talk about all the things I wanted to. I am a simple man. I was convinced that I am in love with her. And so, I confessed my feelings to her. She was, well, hesitant. She had fears drawn from her past relationship. I tried consoling and convincing her that it would be great. She wasn’t ready. She asked for some time. I decided to wait. Meanwhile, the college’s cultural fest was around the corner. A prom night was organized. I did not know how to dance but I wanted to take her over there. I asked her. She said yes! On the night, she wore a grey one-piece. She was looking *stunning*. We danced. I was terrible at it. She made it easier for me. I loved her more. On 19th September 2019, after a little argument between us, she took me to a *secret place* where we kissed. And she told me, “I love you.” My heart was racing. For the first time, I had a girl say this to me. I had my first kiss. That was an amazing day. Still close to my heart.

And then, it started. We went out on dates. I gave her a red rose. This was the first time in my life that I did this. This was the first time in her life that she received this. We went to a market and bought heels for her as she *loves heels*. We discussed politics on our ride back to the hostel. To this date, it is the most awful aspect of our date for her. We laugh about it. Parallelly, I was kinda exploring this field of programming and I discovered that she is great at it as well. I started pushing her to do more. She was lazy but she would do it. I started spending a considerable amount of my time doing programming. Our relationship found a little common ground in this. We started studying together, especially Math. We were good at it. I liked studying with her. Call me crazy or delusional but, I was pretty convinced that I want to marry the first girl I date. I believed she is the one. We were deeply in love. This beautiful phase of togetherness took its course further. It was great. And then, the coronavirus started spreading everywhere. We all were unanimous about the fact that we have to go back home. Before going, when she was about to sit in her cab, we looked at each other and peck-kissed. We went home.

We thought this break would not last long and life would resume. But, we were terribly wrong. The lockdown went on for almost two years. And in this scenario, our relationship took the nature of long distance. It started off okay. But, as time passed, I got more serious about building my career. I wanted to give more time to writing software. The lockdown was helping me with that. But, I got so lost in it that I started to completely neglect my relationship. I was engrossed in upskilling myself. She used to ask me to spend some time with her. I used to agree with her sentiment but I had an overwhelming need to build myself. If I were to marry her as desired, I had to become a capable man. This desire and passion caused me to be emotionally unavailable. I became cold to her immediate needs. We used to argue a lot about this. We even went on a week’s break and I felt sad in her absence. I wanted to fix things with her. I apologized and we got back but I ended up focusing way too much on my work. Subconsciously, she learned to love me in this way. She adjusted her demands to be the bare minimum. I wanted her to take a backseat until I had my career up from the ground. But the issue was, I did not have a definite timeline. I was working my ass off. But I was upsetting her as well. I completely ignored her wishes. I wanted to spend all the time I had with her but I was unable to stop working. We used to do e-dates but they never worked. I did not contribute to nurturing this relationship enough. She reached her tipping point. She broke up with me. She had all the right reasons to do so. About 2 months later, when the lockdown was lifted, we met. I realized that I am still in love with her and I want a second chance. She was extremely hesitant. I had broken her heart by neglecting her. I begged for another opportunity. She was the girl I thought I would marry. She was the girl I was trying to become a more capable man for. I wanted her with all my heart. She did not want to try again. After enough rounds of begging and crying, she gave in. On 19th March 2022, she gave me a second chance.

I was driven this time. I knew I had fucked up. I wanted to make things right. We were dating again. We started to realize that she is not fully passionate about the relationship this time. I was sad but I wanted to make it work. She was right by her side. I broke her to the point where she had to beg me for my time. Her lack of passion during the second stint was understandable. Yet, I wanted us to work. I believed we could take it from here and hope for things to improve over time. They did. We went out on more dates. She started spending a lot of her time at my rented home. But, I was also becoming extremely insecure. I was confronting her for scenarios that did not exist. I learned to trust her and deal with my insecurity. Although, she felt a little dejected. I had caused a dent. But I was adamant to make things work. I figured we could work on all our issues. We were improving. We had arguments but we were improving. I loved her a lot. I wanted her to be the one for me. We went on out on more dates during the second time than during the first time. It was a beautiful time. We were perfect in my eyes. I wanted to marry her. She was still not 100% convinced about why she should let go of the pain she had endured. I believed we could work on this over time. Then, she went to her hometown for a week and we were arguing on the phone. On 7th October 2022, we went on a movie date which did not go well, as the arguments since her hometown visit continued. We discussed the possibility of a breakup. I did not want it but I could not force her to stay either. On 8th October 2022, we went out for some ice cream. Later, we went to Westside and bought a lip balm for her. I knew the breakup was coming up. She expressed her decision. It was terrible. We sat outside. We cried. We kept crying. We kept hugging. We went back for more ice cream. We hugged again. We chose to walk a little. We hugged again. We got in a cab. I hugged her again. I kissed her on the cheek. Her destination arrived. We parted ways. And with that, our story ends.