# the date

Welcome to yet another installment of "/special". It's been a little over a month since the breakup. I have had a range of feelings towards her. But mostly, I miss her. This one is about how we went on a date, for what is, the last time. 

I tell her on text that it will be a month soon since our breakup. She asks for a breakup date. I instantly say yes! Before moving out of Pune, I wanted to meet her once anyway. And, I miss her so much. No reason to say no. Our friends weren't exactly supportive of this idea. And they had their theoretically right reasons. But, there are two things. One, do what your heart wants. And two, understand that life is about regret minimisation. I would regret not meeting the girl I miss so much way more than I would ever regret for any kind of consequence post this breakup date. This felt like worth going out with her. 

And then comes the day. Friday. 11th November, 2022. I book an auto from my place to her place, and eventually to our destination. The usual for us. She comes and sits in. We start talking. And it's a trip into the past. To the parts of us where we were just happy. We reach our destination, get down and start walking. I hold her hand. It felt a little like new love. The kind where you are a little nervous. We roam around the street,  talking, being a little emotional and just having a good time. Like the old days. After a very long time since our breakup, I was able to walk and laugh with her. I was able to be with her and not be sad. And, and, and, this is also the date where she calls me "motu". After such a long time. I had missed that. 

We go into the restaurant and we eat. We end up disliking the food. But it was okay. She and I were able to have a good time with each other. That's all that fundamentally mattered. We get out of that place as soon as we can, to have waffles. She, like in most instances, cannot complete what she orders. But this wasn't a problem for us since I would always eat what she cannot finish. Just that day, my tummy was full. Yet, it was cute to see her over-order. It's one of her many such idiosyncrancies that I felt I was a first-hand witness of, that had made me fall in love with her. 

We order a cab for our ride back home. While we are waiting, we get a little emotional and hug. I involuntarily, and out of my longing for her, kiss her forehead. The cab arrives and we get in. We sit close to each other. I have her in my arms. I smell her hair. I look at her from the side and I realise for the 9999999999th time that she is so beautiful. Things get a little intimate and we kiss each other, for a few seconds. It felt great and non-ideal at the same time. I had her but I didn't have her. It was painfully beautiful. 

We part ways. I don't feel as sad as I thought I would. We both felt this date would be a very sad one but it wasn't. One important pain point I had was that my last date with her, outside Westside was a sad one. I somehow wanted the last memory of being with her, to be a happy one. This date gave us a chance to have that. This is what our relationship was fundamentally about. It always gave us chances. To be happy. 

I still miss her. I am still upset about our breakup. And I wish it wasn't like this. But I also find it to be somewhat okay these days. It felt so bad because there was something in it that felt so good. And we have to take the bad with the good. The ability to feel so much is proof of us being alive. In absence of this ability, we as humans are nothing. 

If I could ever go back in time, I would go back to  this date. And smile while looking at us. Happy.
